---
layout: post
title:  "R-Shell: Command Shell in C++"
date:   2019-11-3
excerpt: "Re-creating a command shell in C++"
project: true
tag:
comments: false
---

## Overview

A two-person project. The goal of this project is to recreate a command shell in C++. This command shell is known as rshell. It can take commands and chain them using the connectors: 

* "&&" for "and"
* "&#124;&#124;" for "or"
* ";" for a semicolon.

rshell can also use the test command to test file paths with the flags -e, -f, or -d, with -e being the default flag when no flag is specified. Test can also be called using brackets.

It can also handle precedence with parenthesis. Commands with nested parentheses will also work
We have implemented output and input redirection (append, overwrite, and input).

Thank you to my partner Nathan Dang for working with me on this project!

## How it Works

We parsed the user input using the Boost tokenizer and converted the tokens into a postfix notation in order for our binary tree implementation to work. Our connectors (;, &#124;&#124;, &&) served as the operators for our tree (internal nodes). The commands and their arguments make up the operands (leaves).

Once we had our tokens in postfix notation we iterated through the vector of tokens and converted each token into either an Executable (Command/Exit) object or a Connector (And/Or/Semicolon) object, and used the postfix binary tree algorithm in order to build our tree.

Once our tree was built we called execute() on the root of the tree, which will iterate through the entire tree calling execute() on all the nodes in the desired order.

## How to Use

#### Commands

Input bash commands on a single line. Separate commands using connectors:

* &#124;&#124; == OR, if the left command fails the right command executes && == AND, if left command succeeds, then right command executes ; == Next command executes

* exit == exits the command line

To test file path, do the following: test < flag > < filepath > or [ flag filepath ]

#### Flags

-e == checks if file exists -f == checks if file exists and if it is a regular file -d == checks if file exists and is a directory

You can see the code on my GitHub [here](https://github.com/mzeml/rshell).