---
layout: post
title:  "Customer Management System"
date:   2019-02-05
excerpt: "Customer Management System (CMS) using two virtual machines"
project: true
tag:
comments: false
---

## Overview

For this project, I was tasked in creating a Customer Management System (CMS for short). The CMS required two parts: one machine to host the data and another acting as a client that can access the data. Both machines would be connected via a network.

A user would be able to enter data using the client machine and have the data appear on the server. The user could also view data from the server using the client.

## Implementation

I used two virtual machines connected on a virtual network. Both machines were running Mininet, a Linux- based network operating system. I first implemented the server before creating the client.

#### Database Server

The machine hosting the data utilized MySQL to store the information. The data was stored within tables. The actual data were text fields such as Name and Role. There was also an integer (int) fields for ID.

#### Client Interface

The other machine had an Apache server to host the client interface site. On this site, the user had a few options available to them:

* View the records in the database
* Add records
* Remove records

The “Add records” command had the user input values. If the entire record was not entered correctly, the record would not be inserted and the user would be returned to the main menu. Entering non-int values into the int field set the field to 0. When removing, if the user failed to provide a first and last name, no record would remove and the user would back to the main menu.

The client interface was able to achieve all this by being connected to the database system. No information was stored locally by the client; all the data was stored on the server.

## Conclusion

The reason this project holds a special place in my heart is because I had no idea how to get any of it to work. I started the project at 8:00 AM and worked on it until 8:00 PM the same day. In this twelve hour time-frame, I learned how to:
* Connect two machines together via a virtual network
* Host a site using Apache
* Connect and manipulate a database through another machine
* Create an interface in HTML that could take and pass on inputs
* Link my various pages together
* ...and much more!

You can check out the code [here](https://github.com/mzeml/CMS-Interface), if you're interested 

